One more method to go,
and it's a really cool one called promise race.
Back to the library analogy.
I have my list of books,
but what if this time I'm in a hurry and I
don't have time to check out all the books on my list.
I just want to borrow one book,
and it doesn't matter what book.
I just want to check out the first one that's available and leave.
We can achieve this scenario with promises using race.
Let's take a look at an example.
Here we have our by-now familiar list of books.
Everything is the same except for calling dot race instead of all are all settled.
In the list of books each one of them is resolving in a different amount of time.
Book 4 resolves first with a time of one second.
So when I run this code,
I expect that promise race will tell me which promise resolved first, and it does.
After one second, the book 4 promise
resolves and the race method gives me back the message from that resolved promise.
The race method puts all the promises you pass to it
in a race against each other and only returns the winner.
This next example will make it even more clear.
Here, I've changed some of the set timeout times.
So that book 1 resolves after three seconds,
book 2 resolves after four seconds,
and book 3 resolves after two seconds.
But book 4 resolves after one whole minute.
Now, if this was promised all or all settled,
I would have to wait for all of
these promise resolutions to come back before getting an answer.
But you can see that when I run promise dot race,
I still get my answer after
just two seconds with the fastest promise in the bunch, which is book 3.
There's still one more thing we need to take a look at for promise race,
and that is how it reacts to reject it promises.
Here I've updated my list of books,
so that book 2 and 4 now reject.
Book 4 is the fastest promise.
So let's see how race reacts to the first promise being rejected.
The result is interesting.
Promise.race doesn't care whether the fastest promise resolves or rejects.
It just gives us back the information from the first promise.
So in this case, the first promise rejected with a message of sorry not available,
and that's what we got from promise.race.
If the fastest promise in the list that you send to promise race happens to be rejected,
then promise race will return that rejection as the fastest response.
Promise race does not care whether the first promise resolved or rejected.
One common use case for the race method is creating timeouts.
If you make a request to an API resource,
what happens if that API resource isn't reachable?
If you wanted to set a request timeout of five seconds,
you could create a promise that waits for five seconds,
and then race it against the API request.
That way, if the API request does not come back in time,
you can handle that error the other race method.
See promise methods that handle multiple promises aren't so bad after all.
I hope this video has helped you see
the potential use cases for each of these awesome methods.
Now all you have to do is keep your eyes peeled for the opportunity to use them.